## Before Cloud
Peak Load Provisioning -> Where infra is bought in peak time and sits idle
## After Cloud
On Demand Provisioning -> Bought when need and release when doesn't need (Elasticity)

# Regions and Zones
When we want to deploy an application to cloud, Azure provides various regions to host our app to gain more availability. Zones are the subset of region which helps for fault tolerance of it's region. There can be 0 or more availability zones in a region. (US) West Central US Region has 0 availability zones. This helps to work application with low latency when the users are around the region we are choosing.

# Virtual Machines
In Data Centers, applications are deployed to physical servers. But in cloud, we rent Virtual Servers. We achieved through Virtual Machines which are Virtual Servers in Azure. For Google it's Compute Engine , For AWS EC2(Elastic Compute Cloud)

- Create and manage lifecycle of Virtual Machine (VM) instances 
- Load balancing and auto scaling for multiple VM instances 
- Attach storage to your VM instances Manage network connectivity and configuration for your VM instances 
- Our Goal: Setup VM instances as HTTP (Web) Server Distribute load with Load Balancers

**Azure Virtual Machines - Key Concepts** 
Feature                      Explanation 
Image                      Choose Operating System and Software 
VM Family               Choose the right family of hardware (General purpose or                                                                   Compute/Storage/Memory optimized or GPU or HPC) 
VM Size (B1s, B2s, ...) Choose the right quantity of hardware (2 vCPUs, 4GB of memory) 
Disks                        Attach Virtual Disks to VMs (Block Storage)